Created blog post about deploying a Django MySQL application to AWS (#4081)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/deploying-a-django-application-to-aws/index.md

---
title: "Creating and Deploying a Django application to AWS"
date: 2020-08-28
meta_desc: Using Pulumi to create and deploy a simple Django MySQL application to AWS
meta_image: meta.png
authors: ["vova-ivanov"]
tags: ["aws", "python", "mysql", "docker"]
---

In this blog post, we will finish swapping out the frontend and backend of our [Python AWS application]({{< relref "/blog/creating-a-python-aws-application-using-flask-and-redis" >}}). Although Flask and Redis are different from Django and MySQL in many ways, the underlying infrastructure behind their deployment is nonetheless very similar, and can be effortlessly updated as we transition from one to the other. 

<!--more-->

We will be paying additional attention to security, and will be making use of Pulumi's secret management tools to protect our passwords and private keys. 

The first step is to create a new directory and initialize a Pulumi project with `pulumi new aws-python`.

```bash
$ mkdir aws-django-voting-app && cd aws-django-voting-app
$ pulumi new aws-python
```

> Next, let's create a folder to hold our application, and start a Django project in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's create a folder to hold our application and start a Django project in it.
```

```bash
$ mkdir frontend && cd frontend
$ django-admin startproject mysite
$ cd mysite
```

> This tutorial was written for the [aws-django-voting-app example](https://github.com/jetvova/examples/tree/vova/aws-py-sql-dynamicresource/aws-py-dynamicresource), but works just as well with any other Django application. The most important file is `./mysite/settings.py`, which we will modify to accept secrets and configuration parameters in the form of environment variables. A common mistake that programmers make is to submit files with important data to source code repositories. Even if it is a private repository, it is still not recommended practice to leave passwords and private keys in your files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial was written for the [aws-django-voting-app example](https://github.com/jetvova/examples/tree/vova/aws-py-sql-dynamicresource/aws-py-dynamicresource) but will work with any other Django application. The most important file is `./mysite/settings.py`, which we will modify to accept secrets and configuration parameters in the form of environment variables. A common mistake that programmers make is to submit files with important data to source code repositories. Even if it is a private repository, it is still not recommended to leave passwords and private keys in your files.
```

```python
SECRET_KEY = os.environ['SECRET_KEY']
```

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
        'NAME': os.environ['DATABASE_NAME'],
        'USER': os.environ['USER_NAME'],
        'PASSWORD': os.environ['USER_PASSWORD'],
        'HOST': os.environ['DATABASE_ADDRESS'],
        'PORT': os.environ['DATABASE_PORT'],
    }
}
```

> In order to be able to perform database migrations as part of the deployment, we will create a `setupDatabase.sh` script inside the `aws-django-voting-app/frontend/mysite` folder. As a bonus, the script will create an admin account that we can use to log into our website with. Make sure the file has exec permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform database migrations as part of the deployment, we will create a `setupDatabase.sh` script inside the `aws-django-voting-app/frontend/mysite` folder. As a bonus, the script will create an admin account that we can use to log into our website. Make sure the file has exec permissions.
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -exu
python3 /mysite/manage.py makemigrations
python3 /mysite/manage.py migrate
export DJANGO_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD=$DJANGO_PASSWORD 
python3 /mysite/manage.py createsuperuser \
    --no-input \
    --username=$DJANGO_NAME \
    --email=$DJANGO_NAME@example.com
```

> The next step, is to go back into the `aws-django-voting-app/frontend` folder, and set up Docker to turn our application into a container. First, we will list the libraries our application uses by creating a `requirements.txt` file with the following lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to go back into the `aws-django-voting-app/frontend` folder and containerize our application with Docker. First, we will list the libraries our application uses by creating a `requirements.txt` file with the following lines.
```

```python
django==3.1
mysqlclient==1.4.0
```

And lastly, we can create the `Dockerfile`.

```bash
FROM ubuntu:18.04

WORKDIR /

EXPOSE 80

RUN apt-get update && \
    apt install -y gcc python3-dev python3-pip mysql-client-core-5.7 libmysqlclient-dev

ADD requirements.txt /

RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt

ADD mysite /mysite

CMD [ "python3", "/mysite/manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:80" ]
```

> Now that our Djano application and Dockerfile are ready, we can return to the main `aws-django-voting-app` folder. The Pulumi project requires several configuration variables, which we set using `pulumi config set`. They are used to configure the MySQL admin account, a user account for initializing the table, and the Django website admin account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that our Django application and Dockerfile are ready, we can return to the main `aws-django-voting-app` folder. The Pulumi project requires several configuration variables, which we set using `pulumi config set`. They are used to configure the MySQL admin account, a user account for initializing the table, and the Django website admin account.
```

```bash
$ pulumi config set sql-admin-name <NAME>
$ pulumi config set sql-admin-password <PASSWORD> --secret
$ pulumi config set sql-user-name <NAME>
$ pulumi config set sql-user-password <PASSWORD> --secret
$ pulumi config set django-admin-name <NAME>
$ pulumi config set django-admin-password <PASSWORD> --secret
```

The `requirements.txt` file lists the libraries used by the project. We will need to add the following:

```python
pulumi-docker>=2.0.0,<3.0.0
pulumi-mysql>=2.0.0,<3.0.0
mysql-connector-python>=1.0.0,<10.0.0
```

> The fist few lines of our `__main__.py` file indicate the libraries to import and describe the application's configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first few lines of our `__main__.py` file indicate the libraries to import and describe the application's configuration options.
```

```python
import json
import base64
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws
import pulumi_docker as docker
import pulumi_mysql as mysql

config = pulumi.Config()
sql_admin_name = config.require("sql-admin-name")
sql_admin_password = config.require_secret("sql-admin-password")
sql_user_name = config.require("sql-user-name")
sql_user_password = config.require_secret("sql-user-password")
availability_zone = pulumi.Config("aws").get("region")

django_admin_name = config.require("django-admin-name")
django_admin_password = config.require_secret("django-admin-password")

django_secret_key = config.require_secret("django-secret-key")
```

After setting up the imports and configurations, we create an Elastic Container Service Cluster.
A Cluster represents a group of tasks and services that work together for a certain purpose. In
this instance, the purpose is to provide users with a voting application.

```python
app_cluster = aws.ecs.Cluster("app-cluster")
```

> To allow different tasks within our cluster to communicate, we create a Virtual Private

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow tasks within our cluster to communicate, we create a Virtual Private
```

app_vpc_subnet = aws.ec2.Subnet("app-vpc-subnet",
    cidr_block="172.31.0.0/20",
    availability_zone=availability_zone + "a",
    vpc_id=app_vpc)
```

A gateway and routing table are needed to allow the VPC to communicate with the Internet.
Once created, we associate the routing table with our VPC.

```python
app_gateway = aws.ec2.InternetGateway("app-gateway",
    vpc_id=app_vpc.id)

app_routetable = aws.ec2.RouteTable("app-routetable",
    routes=[
        {
            "cidr_block": "0.0.0.0/0",
            "gateway_id": app_gateway.id,
        }
    ],
    vpc_id=app_vpc.id)

app_routetable_association = aws.ec2.MainRouteTableAssociation("app_routetable_association",
    route_table_id=app_routetable.id,
    vpc_id=app_vpc)
```

To control traffic flow between applications running inside our VPC, we create a security group.

```python
app_security_group = aws.ec2.SecurityGroup("security-group",
	vpc_id=app_vpc.id,
	description="Enables HTTP access",
    ingress=[{
		'protocol': 'tcp',
		'from_port': 0,
		'to_port': 65535,
		'cidr_blocks': ['0.0.0.0/0'],
    }],
    egress=[{
		'protocol': '-1',
		'from_port': 0,
		'to_port': 0,
		'cidr_blocks': ['0.0.0.0/0'],
    }])
```

> To start our services, we need to create an Identity and Access Management (IAM) role,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start our services, we need to create an Identity and Access Management (IAM) role
```

and attach execution permissions to it.

```python
app_exec_role = aws.iam.Role("app-exec-role",
    assume_role_policy="""{
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
        {
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Principal": {
                "Service": "ecs-tasks.amazonaws.com"
            },
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Sid": ""
        }]
    }""")

exec_policy_attachment = aws.iam.RolePolicyAttachment("app-exec-policy", role=app_exec_role.name,
	policy_arn="arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AmazonECSTaskExecutionRolePolicy")
```

> Likewise, our ECS service will need to have a task role to manage it, along with its own set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likewise, our ECS service will need to have a task role to manage it and its own set
```

    }""")

task_policy_attachment = aws.iam.RolePolicyAttachment("app-access-policy", role=app_task_role.name,
	policy_arn="arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2ContainerServiceFullAccess")

task_policy_attachment = aws.iam.RolePolicyAttachment("app-lambda-policy", role=app_task_role.name,
	policy_arn="arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaFullAccess")
```

An Elastic Container Registry Repository stores the application Docker images that we want
to run. The life cycle policy automatically removes the oldest untagged image that we uploaded.

```python
app_ecr_repo = aws.ecr.Repository("app-ecr-repo",
    image_tag_mutability="MUTABLE")

app_lifecycle_policy = aws.ecr.LifecyclePolicy("app-lifecycle-policy",
    repository=app_ecr_repo.name,
    policy="""{
        "rules": [
            {
                "rulePriority": 10,
                "description": "Remove untagged images",
                "selection": {
                    "tagStatus": "untagged",
                    "countType": "imageCountMoreThan",
                    "countNumber": 1
                },
                "action": {
                    "type": "expire"
                }
            }
        ]
    }""")
```

> With the basic infrastructure in place, we can start writing the backend for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the infrastructure in place, we can start writing the backend for the application.
```

> Our MySQL database is created with an RDS instance. To create the instance, Amazon requires 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our MySQL database is an RDS instance. To create the instance, Amazon requires 
```

that it be given two subnets in different availability zones.

```python
extra_rds_subnet = aws.ec2.Subnet("extra-rds-subnet",
    cidr_block="172.31.128.0/20",
    availability_zone=availability_zone + "b",
    vpc_id=app_vpc)
```

> Both subnets are assigned to a SubnetGroup which belongs to the RDS instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both subnets are assigned to a SubnetGroup that belongs to the RDS instance.
```

```python
app_database_subnetgroup = aws.rds.SubnetGroup("app-database-subnetgroup",
    subnet_ids=[app_vpc_subnet.id, extra_rds_subnet.id])

mysql_rds_server = aws.rds.Instance("mysql-server",
    engine="mysql",
    username=sql_admin_name,
    password=sql_admin_password,
    instance_class="db.t2.micro",
    allocated_storage=20,
    skip_final_snapshot=True,
    publicly_accessible=True,
    db_subnet_group_name=app_database_subnetgroup.id,
    vpc_security_group_ids=[app_security_group.id])
```

Pulumi offers some additional tools to make handling MySQL easier.

```python
mysql_provider = mysql.Provider("mysql-provider",
    endpoint=mysql_rds_server.endpoint,
    username=sql_admin_name,
    password=sql_admin_password)
```

We initialize the example database and create a user to manage it.

```python
mysql_database = mysql.Database("mysql-database",
    name="votes-database",
    opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(provider=mysql_provider))

mysql_user = mysql.User("mysql-standard-user",
    user=sql_user_name,
    host="example.com",
    plaintext_password=sql_user_password,
    opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(provider=mysql_provider))
```

> The user account which we will give to Django only needs the "SELECT", "UPDATE", "INSERT", 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user account which we will give to Django only needs the SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, 
```

> and "DELETE" permissions to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and DELETE permissions to function.
```

```python
mysql_access_grant = mysql.Grant("mysql-access-grant",
    user=mysql_user.user,
    host=mysql_user.host,
    database=mysql_database.name,
    privileges= ["SELECT", "UPDATE", "INSERT", "DELETE"],
    opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(provider=mysql_provider))
```

Our RDS instance has been set up, and the MySQL backend is complete. All that's left is to 
create the Django frontend.

> A target group, balancer, and listener is created for the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A target group, balancer, and listener are created for the frontend.
```

	protocol="TCP",
	target_type="ip",
    stickiness= {
        "enabled": False,
        "type": "lb_cookie",
    },
	vpc_id=app_vpc.id)

django_balancer = aws.lb.LoadBalancer("django-balancer",
    load_balancer_type="network",
    internal=False,
    security_groups=[],
    subnets=[app_vpc_subnet.id])

django_listener = aws.lb.Listener("django-listener",
	load_balancer_arn=django_balancer.arn,
	port=80,
    protocol="TCP",
	default_actions=[{
		"type": "forward",
		"target_group_arn": django_targetgroup.arn
	}])
```

The application is built into a Docker image and pushed to our ECR repository we created
earlier.

```python
def get_registry_info(rid):
    creds = aws.ecr.get_credentials(registry_id=rid)
    decoded = base64.b64decode(creds.authorization_token).decode()
    parts = decoded.split(':')
    if len(parts) != 2:
        raise Exception("Invalid credentials")
    return docker.ImageRegistry(creds.proxy_endpoint, parts[0], parts[1])

app_registry = app_ecr_repo.registry_id.apply(get_registry_info)

django_image = docker.Image("django-dockerimage",
    image_name=app_ecr_repo.repository_url,
    build="./frontend",
    skip_push=False,
    registry=app_registry
)
```

> To help with debugging our application, we will create a Cloudwatch instance to automatically 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help with debugging our application, we will create a Cloudwatch instance to store all logs automatically. 
```

> store all logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Would it be better to have "To help with debugging our application, we will create a Cloudwatch instance to store all logs" instead?

Reviewer: yes

```python
django_log_group = aws.cloudwatch.LogGroup("django-log-group",
    retention_in_days=1,
    name="django-log-group"
)
```

Our project is special because it uses two unique ECS services---one that sets up the MySQL 

> database and stops, and one that continuously runs and handles the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database, and one that continuously runs and handles the website.
```

            { "name": "USER_PASSWORD", "value": args[4]  },
            { "name": "DATABASE_ADDRESS", "value": args[5]  },
            { "name": "DATABASE_PORT", "value": str(int(args[6]))  },
        ],
        "logConfiguration": {
            "logDriver": "awslogs",
            "options": {
                "awslogs-group": "django-log-group",
                "awslogs-region": "us-west-2",
                "awslogs-stream-prefix": "djangoApp-site",           
            },
        },
    }])))
```

Similarly, we will launch our second task definition on Fargate.

```python
django_site_service = aws.ecs.Service("django-site-service",
	cluster=app_cluster.arn,
    desired_count=1,
    launch_type="FARGATE",
    task_definition=django_site_task_definition.arn,
    wait_for_steady_state=False,
    network_configuration={
		"assign_public_ip": "true",
		"subnets": [app_vpc_subnet.id],
		"security_groups": [app_security_group.id]
	},
    load_balancers=[{
		"target_group_arn": django_targetgroup.arn,
		"container_name": "django-container",
		"container_port": 80,
	}],
    opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(depends_on=[django_listener]),
```

> To connect to our application, we export the DNS name of the Django balancer, and open it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to our application, we export the DNS name of the Django balancer and open it
```

> in a browser window. To access Django administration, add "/admin/" to the end of the url,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a browser window. To access Django administration, add "/admin/" to the end of the URL,
```

> and login using your Django admin credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and log in using your Django admin credentials.
```

```python
pulumi.export("app-url", django_balancer.dns_name)
```

> In this example, I described how to set up a basic Django voting application, and deploy it to AWS. Although our Django and Flask applications use very different AWS services, we were able to seamlessly replace the previous infrastructure with what was needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, I described how to set up a basic Django voting application and deploy it to AWS. Although our Django and Flask applications use very different AWS services, we seamlessly replaced the previous infrastructure with what was needed.
```

django_secret_key = config.require_secret("django-secret-key")
```

> After setting up the imports and configurations, we create an ECS Cluster, VPC, Subnet, RDS instance, and several other items. All the components are identical to the ones in the [first]({{< relref "/blog/creating-a-python-aws-application-using-flask-and-redis" >}}) and [second]({{< relref "/blog/deploying-mysql-schemas-using-dynamic-providers/" >}}) blog posts, and the full code can be seen in this example's [github repository.](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-django-voting-app/aws-django-voting-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting up the imports and configurations, we create an ECS Cluster, VPC, Subnet, RDS instance, and several other items. All the components are identical to the ones in the [first]({{< relref "/blog/creating-a-python-aws-application-using-flask-and-redis" >}}) and [second]({{< relref "/blog/deploying-mysql-schemas-using-dynamic-providers" >}}) blog posts, and the full code can be seen in this example's [github repository.](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-django-voting-app/aws-django-voting-app).
```

In this example, I described how to set up a basic Django voting application, and deploy it to AWS. Although our Django and Flask applications use very different AWS services, we were able to seamlessly replace the previous infrastructure with what was needed.

> Next week, we'll explore PostgreSQL, Express, React, and Node.js, and will use them together to create a simple application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next week, we'll explore PostgreSQL, Express, React, and Node.js, and use them to create a simple application.
```

> The blog post's full code and an in-depth explanation for each component can be [found on Github](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-django-voting-app/aws-django-voting-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The blog post's full code and an in-depth explanation for each component are on [Github](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-django-voting-app/aws-django-voting-app).
```
